- [Instructor] When Lambda is executed,
it always passes some input and returns the output.
In this lesson, we will cover various inputs and outputs
to and from your Lambda function.
As you have already seen,
every Lambda function requires a handler method
that processes events.
The events can come in different shapes and forms,
and this is where customizing inputs makes sense.
In the hello world example,
the event was mapped to API specific request object
that comes from the AWS SDK.
The Lambda runtime receives an event
as JSON format stream and converts it into an object.
If you define your own input's type,
each should be a deserializable, mutable,
plain old Java object, POJO,
with the default constructor and properties
for each field in the event.
As an input, optionally,
we can include a context object,
which is out of field by AWS Lambda execution environment,
which provides information about the invocation.
Finally, the output type can be an object or void.
Void type makes sense for asynchronous invocation,
but for synchronous,
it definitely makes sense to have a return type.
The runtime serializes return values into text.
If the output is an object with fields,
the runtime serializes it into a JSON document.
Other inputs types are primitive types,
they can be out of box.
For example, for Boolean, also string false works,
plain string we have already seen,
maps and lists with custom types
and finally input streams.
When it comes to handler signature,
we can use AWS Lambda core libraries, request handler,
which works with generic types,
and request stream handler interface.
For request stream handler interface,
Lambda passes your handler and input stream
and output stream.
The handler reads bytes from the input stream,
writes to an output stream and returns void.
Benefit of using those handlers
is they provide validation during compile time.
And also, AWS toolkit gives us the ability
to run and debug functions locally.
However, we are not required to use any of these interfaces.
We could use function interface from Java
or don't use any interface at all and it'll still work.
What is important once we want to deploy our function
is to set the handler parameter
on our functions configuration.
We need to provide package,
class and method name of our handler, or in case,
when a function is implementing handler interfaces,
we can skip the method name.